this is a really brief comment by video
someone in my chat just commented in
response to my 30 minute lecture about
Buddhism in connection with veganism
future of ecology etc etc said this
makes it sound like you're an animal
lover even though you're not okay what
does it mean to be an animal lover okay
if you love your children if you love a
child a child you adopt up with no blood
relation you you cannot want that child
to remain a child forever it can't be
that your love is based on keeping them
in a situation of perpetual dependency
uh I think in some cases it is I think
some parents do feel that way I think on
an emotional level some parents want the
baby to always be a baby or they have so
much fun taking care of a six-year-old
they want it to always be a six-year-old
but real love for a child has to
ultimately aim at hoping that child
achieve independence you have to want
that child to be independent and you
know we don't use the word love for it
so often in English but if you just have
a friend if you just have a colleague at
work ultimately your love for them must
also be based on wanting them to lead an
independent life it can't be oh I have
so much respect for this work colleague
or this friend I have as two adults and
you know you want them to be in your
constant care now if you have a friend
whether it's your wife or your daughter
or your mother your grandmother and
sometimes they're sick and you have to
take care of them for us that's a
wonderful thing that in that situation
of dependency you care for them but the
concept of being an animal lover in as
much as it rests on the presumption of
keeping a domesticated animal in a state
of perpetual dependency I think is sick
and wrong and immoral I think it has to
be based on a respect for a love for
wild animals living their own lives and
their own terms so you know if I want
the best for an animal if in some sense
i love an animal why is that
incompatible with my wanting them to
have an independent life
why would it be based on my continually
nurturing them in the sense of keeping
them in a sickbed right even if I love
my own grandfather it can't be that I
love my grandfather therefore I want him
to be in a sick bed all the time with me
nutriyum it must be that I want him to
have some kind of Independence see on
whether it's your child or an older
relative or work colleague is the same
age I do think that wanting the best for
someone loving someone ultimately has to
have on the horizon as the imagined
outcome that you're supporting some kind
of Independence some kind of
self-determination for that person and
on the contrary if you hate someone if
you fear someone if you can't trust
someone if they're a danger to society
if you want to see them put in Chains
kept in a prison kept behind bars kept
in a state of dependency precisely to
deprive them of that independence
because they're a threat because they're
a danger there a danger you have you
that's obviously not love right I think
there is a sense in which we do care for
dangerous criminals I think that's
really worth philosophizing about I do
but domesticating an animal whether
you're keeping it in a kennel in a zoo
in a cage in an actual prison or you're
keeping it in your living room and
depriving it of its testicles depriving
of its normal sex life of its normal
instincts of its neural behavior giving
it a life in which it never even learns
to feed itself it never learns to forage
for food in the woods giving it a life
where it can never have independence
where you broken its will and so on to
me that's not love I don't think you can
legitimately claim to be an animal lover
if your idea of caring for an animal is
turning it into a toy I also do not
think you can really claim to love a
human being if your idea of love for
that person is to turn them into a toy
probably I think there are probably some
sick horror movies about that a
spectator I thought I would see it a lot
to think about but I mean I think we can
all relate to that too you know whether
love between boyfriend and girlfriend or
between parent and child sometimes love
can be too controlling sometimes love
people want to turn someone into their
pet in some sense you know what I mean I
think it's a problem I think these are
dark tendencies that exist in human
nature not just in relation animals not
just relation to investigated pets am I
an animal lover if I exercise my love
and respect for animals by wanting them
to live independent lives out in the
wild and not in my living room I want
them to live in the forest not in my
living room when you look into the eyes
of a cow a cow has bigger eyes than a
human being and has a bigger brain than
human being it can suffer etc doesn't
mean I like the way cows smell don't kid
yourself these animals smell the way
they do for a reason they have their own
pheromones they have their own society
they have their own reason for looking
the way they do acting the way they do
smelling the way they do cats have claws
for a reason and it's not for your
entertainment okay we literally live in
a dog-eat-dog world I recently had a
very brief appearance on my channel from
sniper wolf who's a well-known YouTube
personality she had two pet dogs and one
of them was killed was eaten by a wild
dog so it's a domesticated dog was torn
apart I'm sure I forget the name of the
the breed of dog was one of the right
not a wolf but another type of wild
canine devoured her her pet dog in her
backyard you know came over the fence
it's literally a dog-eat-dog world and I
know it's hard to look at the kind of
comfort you may provide an animal and to
see that as something that's depriving
them of the life of the life of the mind
for them the life of their instincts the
life that they really yearn to live
which is a life that includes danger the
same way that human beings yearn for
danger human beings don't want to live
in a totally safe prison cell either
this is my response to the question
someone saying
you know yeah it sounds like your animal
abuja I am an animal lover because I
respect animals I prefer use words like
respect rather than love but what I want
for them is for them to have
independence is for them to have lives
of dignity not to have lives of
dependency